Summer Olympic
The tennis tournament at the 2016 Summer Olympics was held at the Olympic Tennis Centre, from 6 to 14 August.The competition was played on a fast hardcourt surface used in numerous North American tournaments that aims to minimize disruption for players. Initially a total of 172 players were expected to compete in five events: singles and doubles for both men and women and the return of the mixed doubles for the second consecutive time. However, eventually 105 male and 94 female players were granted places in the draws. The Olympic tennis events were run and organized by the Brazilian Olympic Committee (COB) and the International Tennis Federation (ITF), and were part of the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) and Women's Tennis Association (WTA) tours.

Grand Slam
The Grand Slam tournaments, also called majors, are the four most-important annual tennis events. They offer the most ranking points, prize money, public and media attention, the greatest strength and size of field, and greater number of "best of" sets for men. The Grand Slam itinerary consists of the Australian Open in mid January, the French Open in May and June, Wimbledon in June and July, and the US Open in August and September. Each tournament is played over a period of two weeks. 

ATP Finals 
The ATP Finals is the second highest tier of men's tennis tournament after the four Grand Slam tournaments.It is held annually in November at the O2 Arena in London, United Kingdom. The ATP Finals are the season-ending championships of the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) World Tour, featuring the top eight singles players and doubles teams of the ATP Rankings. The tournament was first held in 1970.

ATP Masters 1000
The ATP World Tour Masters 1000 (previously known as the ATP Championship Series, Single-Week , ATP Super 9 , Tennis Masters Series , and ATP Masters Series) is the third highest tier of men's tennis tournament after the four Grand Slam tournaments and ATP World Tour Finals.Results in ATP Masters 1000 events earn players more world ranking points than regular tournaments, though not as many as Grand Slam events or the year-end ATP World Tour Finals. Up until 2007, most Masters Series finals were contested as best of five-set matches. Currently, all Masters Series events are decided in best of three-set matches.

ATP Masters 500
The ATP World Tour 500 series (previously known as the ATP Championship Series and ATP International Series Gold) is the fourth highest tier of men's tennis tournament after the four Grand Slam tournaments, ATP World Tour Finals, and the ATP World Tour Masters 1000. The series includes 13 tournaments, with 500 rankings points awarded for the events' singles champions – which accounts for the name of the series. Tournaments have various draws of 32 and 48 for singles and 16 and 24 for doubles. It is mandatory for leading players to enter at least four 500 events, including at least one after the US Open; if they play fewer than four, or fail to play in one after the US Open they get a "zero" score towards their world ranking for each one short.

ATP Masters 250
The ATP World Tour 250 series (previously known as the ATP World Series and ATP International Series) is the fifth highest tier of men's tennis tournament after the four Grand Slam tournaments,ATP World Tour Finals,ATP World Tour Masters 1000, and ATP World Tour 500. The series includes 40 tournaments, with 250 rankings points awarded to each singles champion –which accounts for the name of the series. Draws consist of 28, 32, or 48 for singles and 16 for doubles.
